- fast forwards to the darkness
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to slash forward the channel we
provide summarization and commentary on
all your favorite popular obscure horror
movies in this video we're gonna take
you through the 2011 home invasion
themed film you're next directed by Adam
Wingard this indie film was picked up by
Lionsgate as a result of its strong
showing at film festivals and received a
wide release in 2013 while it wasn't a
blockbuster it managed to grow
significantly more than its modest
budget relying on strong writing
directing and acting to create an
intense atmosphere of tension with a
plot that unfolds in a way that
contravenes normal expectations for this
type of movie in what way you ask let's
take a quick look
we start with a horror movie classic
opening on a sex scene it sounds like a
pleasurable time but the look on her
face indicates this may actually be
regrettable sex after he hoists himself
off her and heads to the shower she goes
downstairs to make herself a drink
she's momentarily alarmed when the
motion sensor lights turned on outside
but she doesn't see anything untoward
so she locks up and continues with her
task she plays some music from what at
this point may as well be an 8-track
player and makes a refreshing cocktail
she takes a moment to both enjoy her
drink and ponder her life choices while
her paramour continues his post coital
steamer perhaps if he had done this
beforehand she would have found the
experience more worthwhile as we switch
back and forth amongst scenes from
within the house were provided only the
subtlest hints that something may be
amiss a fine example of competent
directing we get a slow confirmation of
our dread as the boyfriend finally
finishes polishing his balls and comes
out to the living room to discover a
message on the window that indicates
some sort of sequential preference for
what we don't know yet whiskers can't
help himself and he absent mindedly
pause this curiosity he casually casts
his gaze in a downward direction
catching sight of his beloved's bloody
corpse he does the next best thing to
checking for a pulse and attempts to
flee he's then attacked by a man and a
mask with machete
after this we cut to two of our main
characters Paul and Aubrey taking a
scenic drive their conversation implies
they are heading to a vacation home
while also establishing how isolated
that home is Aubrey is played by fan
favorite and classic 80s scream Queen
Barbara Crampton who he met and from
beyond Paul and beat cramps I'll I'll
work on that arrive at the house to find
the front door unlocked upon inspection
they determined that everything inside
the house appears to be in order and
they conclude that the door was likely
left open by mistake by the cleaner and
they begin to make the house livable
while this is under way we get a brief
sequence introducing us to the two main
main characters Aaron and Kristen a
relatively new couple but a couple
that's been together long enough for her
to meet the parents and spend a weekend
with the family at their vacation home
we get some dialog to establish that the
parents are loaded and that the familial
relationships are somewhat strained
meanwhile Krampus sweeping up the
kitchen hears a loud noise upstairs
it's safe to assume the noise came from
her husband Paul until he almost
immediately shows up behind her giving
her a jump scare and confirming that he
was in the basement she has the right
ideas she immediately recommends they
vacate the premises he takes a typical
sceptical role of insisting the noise he
never heard was most likely something it
couldn't possibly have been just a
creepy old house with that he grabs a
makeshift cudgel and heads upstairs to
check it out while going through the
typical steps of alerting any intruders
to his exact location he at least turns
on the lights as he goes just as he's
about to open a door or Crispin gives
him a jump scare asking why mom is
downstairs crying as they both head down
we get indication there was good reason
to be concerned
luckily for them 10,000 BC is on pills
for an unspecified malady allowing them
all to write the incident off to her
silliness
welcome to the family Aaron enjoy your
weekend with that out of the way Aaron
and Crispin head off to bed with another
expositional conversation Crispin is
nervous about how his brothers will
present and gives hints that he may be a
bit of a failure in comparison to the
other members of the family well 90
night in an overnight sequence we do get
one shot to confirm there's at least one
person stalking the home from outside as
we catch a reflection of a weirdo in an
animal mask in the window as Aubrey gets
a drink in the kitchen the next morning
Crispin goes downstairs to see the air
and has already met his douche brother
Drake and his wife Kelly they appear to
be having a normal conversation until
Crispin shows up and Drake immediately
lays into him telling embarrassing
stories discussing his failures and
otherwise physically and emotionally
dominating him Aaron finds her way into
the kitchen it attempts to endear
herself to Aubrey by asking if she can
lend a hand
she's initially told no but then are
burry has second thoughts as she asks
Aaron to go to the neighbor's house for
some milk like it's 1952 it's hard to
tell if this is some kind of Power Move
Aaron definitely has a look on her face
like she was expecting to peel carrots
or something even so she's willing and
her walking off gives us a natural
transition into other areas of activity
providing us some interfamilial insights
the men are outside admiring some grain
j-- we learned that Drake is an
excellent butt kisser looks so good and
that Crispin failed to get a fellowship
he had applied for we can tell that he
expects excellence from his stock and
considers Crispin to be the lowest rung
of the family hierarchy we end the day's
sequence with Aaron failing to get
anyone at the neighbor's house while a
familiar tune confirms for us that this
was the house in the opening sequence
and with that we transition to the
evening where we knock Crispin a few
more rungs down the ladder as
rest of the family shows up the third
brother Felix with his date Z ami the
youngest sister arrives with her
boyfriend Tariq a filmmaker she actually
does seem like the most normal of the
siblings and her breezy cheeriness
stands out amidst the rest of the family
no wonder they dote on her Audrey thanks
everyone for coming and we get into the
evening meal and uh well I guess not yet
thanks to mom and dad but liquor Drake
shows how cultured and intellectual he
is by regulating Tariq with an
exhaustive examination of the artistic
power of commercials however before he's
done crushing Tariq he zeroes in on a
conversation between Crispin and Aaron
interjecting himself in creating
conflict with Crispin both brothers are
quick to confront but slow to repeat or
clarify anything that either of them say
resulting in a classic
passive-aggressive grudge match this
level of childish repartee strikes
tariqas banal but luckily something
strange and interesting catches his eye
outside it's a crossbow bolt much more
interesting indeed this leads us to an
awesome slow reveal where no one
initially realizes what's happened as
the pieces come together they recoil in
horror immediately scattering more bolts
follow creating panic and confusion in
the turmoil Drake takes one to the back
but survives everyone else gets low as
they try to get help the group discovers
they have no cell phone signal isolation
possibly but then Felix offers up a ton
of information about signal jammers
Aaron takes control the situation like a
boss exuding confidence and
self-assurance she begins shouting clear
direct instructions that provide them
with the strategy that gets him all out
of the dining room free of any extra
holes
she then provides him another solid
piece of survival advice when she
prevents them from removing the bolt
from Drake's back despite common movie
tropes you got to leave it alone with
slightly clearer heads the group begins
to work somewhat in unison doing more
than screaming and running around and
they decide they should make a run for
the cars this naturally devolves into a
crisp and Drake dick-measuring contest
about who's the fastest and ends with
ami asserting herself into the argument
ready to prove herself and failing to
recognize this situation is about risk
mitigation rather than personal
development she insists that she is the
fastest they agree to let her embark on
this journey of self-discovery and she
prepares for the task at hand the idea
is that she'll hit full speed as they
opened the doors for her so she shoots
out of there like a bat out of hell
creating confusion and giving her
precious seconds to reach the cars the
scene has a tremendous build-up expertly
constructed of various pieces that
create a mounting sense of anxiety that
gets acutely focused on a me as she
bursts through the doors in slow motion
only to be instantly snapped into full
speed as she snags her throat on a piano
wire that had been strung across the
opening the full-speed clotheslining has
Amy on the ground back in the house with
a gaping gash in her neck
once again the group finds themselves
dumbfounded as they helplessly clock at
the horrific scene whereas the violence
to come ramps up to the point of
absurdity this scene is played for
effect it's quiet and shocking and the
actors dig deep to sell the emotional
impact of what they're witnessing this
represents the emotional crescendo of
the movie the director lingers here
wallowing in the aftermath for a bit and
it works well it draws you in and
quickly establishes a strong connection
to what's happening by excellently
demonstrating the stakes of the film and
giving a glimpse of the full impact of
the violence but then we have to focus
back on the task at hand
Aaron runs off but only to clear the
upstairs and lock all the windows she
does this all fairly quickly assuming
they are at least safe inside the house
the group takes a grief-stricken Aubrey
upstairs to lie down and recover and
then they run off to help secure the
rest of the house unfortunately no one
checked under the bed with barely any
time to process what's going on around
her and intruder slowly creeps out from
underneath he gives her a chance to
recognize his presence before attacking
her with a machete hearing her screams
the group runs upstairs to see what's
happening leaving Aaron alone to
continue securing the house she goes
into the kitchen to find some weapons
and another fine example of smart
decision-making Aaron immediately stabs
the intruder who pulls the classic grab
through the window scenario she then
jumps back and grabs a fresh knife
unfortunately for her the intruder is
now gone and unfortunately for him she
now has a taste for blood upstairs we
get confirmation that Aubrey is dead
with a machete sticking out of her head
and see a familiar message on the wall
everyone's pretty sad but also
remarkably casual given the evidence we
now possess indicating that someone is
inside the house with them Kelly gets
jump scared becomes too overstimulated
to control herself she runs off into the
night Drake attempts to catch her but
manages to twing his back bolt on the
piano wire resulting in shooting pain
through his body fed up he pulls that
sucker out and then immediately faints
Crispin tries to come up with a new
escape plan now the fastest by default
he intends to run out to the cars as a
first step he manages to make it out
having some extra time due to the
intruders pursuing Kelly through the
woods we see that she ends up in the
neighbor's house and attempts to get his
attention through the glass but he just
sits on the couch like a lazy turd
Lamy shows her a way in and a scene in
films that provides Kelly a slow reveal
of why she didn't receive any help and
ends with a brutal kill as the intruder
tees up and plays mini golf with her
head in an axe Crispin meanwhile and
discovers the cars have been disabled so
his plan won't work he has to head back
to the house and we ended the sequence
with a cool shot that pans out as Liam
he takes a breath on the couch as they
try to formulate a new play
crispin makes the assumption that Kelly
likely made it out live having seen no
evidence of carnage outside Crispin
decides to make a run for it all the way
he will head off into the woods find
some way to alert the authorities or get
help and bring them back with him he
heads out while the rest get back to
business with a smaller group it becomes
more obvious that Aaron is the key to
their survival as she appears unafraid
to get her hands dirty and is constantly
doling out practical advice she confirms
their likely three or more of them and
that they should assume that at least
one of them is still in the house they
begin to move Drake to his safer place
for nappy time while talking to Felix
and Z Aaron makes some offhand comments
that really accentuate her level of
creativity when it comes to violence
they're just in the process of divvying
up some weapons when an intruder sneaks
in behind them he makes the mistake of
assuming the mystique of the mask gives
him an advantage as he prays in the
residence of the household instead Aaron
unceremoniously nards him and then
without hesitation unceremoniously
tenderizes the back of his head until
she hears that low satisfying crunch
that lets you know he's ready for the
roaster Felix and Z are shocked by
Aaron's willingness to take action and
do whatever is necessary we see that
Kelly was used to break through the
window and then they realized no one has
seen Paul in a while we cut to Paul
stalking around upstairs in the darkness
checking all the rooms he stumbles upon
an abundance of evidence at least one of
the intruders has been living inside the
house when he finds his makeshift
bedroom and his makeshift bathroom which
happened to be the same room the lights
go out so Aaron goes to the basement to
check the breakers while Felix and Z goo
upstairs to find daddy we see that he's
being stalked by the upstairs killer but
a room check quickly replaces the killer
with Felix when they meet up Paul fills
him in on his working hypothesis based
on the evidence he's found he's
concluded that this is no random
incident but that they've been targeted
for some reason he doesn't get a chance
to expound on this any further as an
intruder slits his throat from behind
felix again sits back and fails to take
any action but in the aftermath of the
slang were let in on a little secret
felix is in cahoots with the killers and
z is complicit he hired them to
slaughter his family for reasons not yet
known having a moment to themselves he
voices his discontent for having his dad
put down right in front of him like that
this was supposed to be a gentle
massacre after all as Felix washes up
and Aaron looks around in the basement
the lamb shows back up he sees his dead
partner and has an abnormally strong
reaction to the sight
this makes Aaron aware of his presence
so she attempts to shut herself into the
basement when she bumps the door she
makes the intruder aware of her as she
peers out to check if the coast is clear
we get a cool shot of unexpected eye
contact through the
he Cole he immediately begins to hack
his way in when Drake wanders into the
scene creating a moment of confusion
that gives Aaron an opportunity to stick
him good and he runs off and advice they
regroup and decide their next steps the
boys go downstairs to collect weapons
while Aaron and Z have some lady bonding
time making crafts in the dining room we
come to find out that Aaron's dad it was
a bit of a nutter and that she grew up
in a survivalist commune in the outback
an area where almost everything in the
environment is constantly trying to harm
you resulting in her unexpected skills
at both protecting and harming people
downstairs Felix decides to continue to
tip the advantage in their favor by
handling a weakened Drake on his own fed
up with the disorganization of the
basement he uses Drake as a human
pegboard and begins inserting tools into
his torso sorry
show it don't say it this goes on for
some time oh well sorry for putting you
out while this is happening Z Ponder's
the notion of braining Aaron with a nail
board but isn't fast enough Aaron leaves
her to finish up and goes to get Paul
who Felix and Z said was resting
upstairs Z instead unlocks and opens the
front door now upstairs Aaron finds Paul
dead realizing she's in danger she takes
quick action hurling your hammer behind
her and flinging herself out the window
on the ground she manages to orient
herself and runs off into the woods
despite a large piece of glass now
protruding from her thigh she rests
against a tree in for reasons unknown
does exactly what she knew not to do
earlier by pulling the glass out ah
that's in there deep under the light of
her flashlight she sees the screwdriver
she previously gifted to the intruder
and immediately runs out of there as a
crossbow bolt whizzes by and lodges in a
tree she gets inside and hides so she
has an opportunity to address her wounds
the lamp pops his head in the window and
sees the trap previously set confident
he's foiled their little plan he hops
off the windowsill and gets Daniels
turned we get a great shot of him
stopping round that really demonstrates
how in there it is I mean that Neil is a
part of him now Felix still upstairs
hears the commotion and gets uppity with
the help would you mind checking on that
this is what I'm paying you for
he backs off on this but he was right to
say his piece I mean shouldn't you be
concerned this is a life-and-death
situation here they all end up
downstairs and Felix offers some helpful
advice you don't worry DNA in here man
they have a detailed conversation about
the remainder of the plan cluing Aaron
into the remaining details we find out
that the dead intruder was the Lambs
brother talk about brothers
laying dead right there sorry man you
made your choices we also find out that
the motivation behind all this was money
Felix doesn't want to wait for his
parish to die of old age to get his
inheritance and he doesn't want to share
with anyone else
however now that the stakes have been
raised he has to peel a few more bills
off his roll to entice them to continue
their killing spree
Aaron having previously attempted an
emergency message in the hope that it
would find a moment of clear signal is
now rewarded for her for site with an
inopportune return call from the local
authorities she readies herself and when
the curtain opens she gives a quick but
hearty throat punch and runs off outside
she immediately doubles back into the
house fooling all but the leader he
decides to check to make sure she didn't
circle back and despite the complete
lack of peripheral vision damask affords
and pokes his head into the window in
return he gets his head poked back by
Aaron with a knife thus ending his
evening of pain and then we have yet
another movie with a freaking booby trap
at least this one's consistent with the
plot and the characters abilities Felix
and Z continue down the road to see if
they catch up with Aaron while the final
intruder goes to make sure she hasn't
circled back Aaron prepares for his
return by breaking all the lightbulbs in
the basement and setting up a mini rave
with her point-and-shoot camera another
relic of a bygone era he should know
exactly what's up but heads straight
toward the light source regardless does
he think she's back there taking
pictures of a model train or something
while he's distracted - Aaron clever
girl that she is comes in from the side
and smashes him up real good with the
log she then makes sure he's good and
dead while the lights strobe providing
us with a really cool shot while
searching for a weapon Felix manages to
land a shot with the crossbow or so it
appeared he heads in to finish her off
after grabbing a knife from his trunk
and turning off the phone jammer they
meet each other in the kitchen and ramp
up the carnage - and eleven this Aaron
both takes and meets out copious amounts
of punishment it just so happens that
the nature of the fight results in a
broken blender carafe blades getting
crammed into the top of Felix's head
Aaron then flips a switch in frat paises
brain after this she pulls knife out of
her shoulder and bifurcates disease
cerebral hemispheres with the signal
back Felix gets a phone call Airy
answers it but remains silent we find
out it's Crispin on the other end
getting no response he assumes Felix is
just mad at him and does the only
rational thing by talking in a way that
implicates him in the conspiracy to
murder his whole family Crispin returns
to find Aaron holding the phone he
attempts to justify the plan by
explaining how much money they stand to
inherit if she goes along with it and
further reassures her that she was meant
to be an independent witness to the
events that transpired everyone had
explicit instructions not to hurt her he
does his best a sweet talker with cold
rationalism I know you've got your
student loans
how would $500,000 go towards fixing
that problem but she's in more of an
emotive state right when it seems like
the whole thing is over Aaron gets shot
by a police officer who finally made it
to the scene and just in time to witness
the one act of violence that appears
most unjustified it makes Aaron appear
most guilty he calls for backup and
we're left to wonder how she's gonna
manage to get out of this situation
until we see him heading for the front
door
and that's it for your next a
high-octane invasion film that doesn't
always follow conventional lines this
movies much better than your standard
multiplex horror film it deserves a
place on any list of great modern horror
its attention to detail makes it worth
repeated viewings even when you have a
good general idea of the flow of the
movie it's still interesting to go back
and watch it with an eye toward all the
little verbal and nonverbal interactions
between the conspirators throughout
there are tons of little details that
subtly connect everything together
without giving anything away making it
fun to watch specifically when you know
exactly what's going to happen and with
that I've exhausted the words I have for
your next I hope you've enjoyed the
video and thanks for watching
[Music]
[Applause]